DOCSP-45368: Persistence Configuration (#77)
mongodb/docs-mongoid: source/data-modeling/persistence-configuration.txt

In this guide, you can learn about how {+odm+} persists data in your database
and collections. **Persistence configuration** in {+odm+} refers to the client,
database, and collection that documents for a model class are stored in, as
well as any options that may be defined such as write preferences. This guide 
provides methods and examples that can be used to access and update 
the persistence configuration of a model class.

Default Collection Name
-----------------------

By default, {+odm+} stores documents in a collection whose name is the pluralized
form of its representative class name. In the following example, for the 
``Restaurant`` class, the corresponding collection is named ``restaurants``. For
the ``Person`` class, the corresponding collection is named ``people``.

.. literalinclude:: /includes/data-modeling/persistence-configuration.rb
  :language: ruby
  :start-after: start default modeling
  :end-before: end default modeling

This pluralization functionality relies on functions in the 
`ActiveSupport::Inflector <https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActiveSupport/Inflector.html>`__ 
class. However, sometimes the default rules of pluralization don't always work. For 

> example, if your model class is named ``Alumnus``, the default collection will

Author: Unfortunately, I tested the old example and it seemed to automatically pluralize correctly, so I tried to pick an example that wouldn't. Seems like this example might be skewed against ESL readers, as it requires a word that 1) has irregular pluralization and 2) is uncommon enough that the `ActiveSupport::Inflector` class wouldn't offer support. Would love suggestions on what to do - maybe I just show the code example?

> example, if your model class is named ``Alumnus``, the default collection will

Reviewer: let's brainstorm when we meet!

following example shows the client, database, and collection name that the 
``Band`` class documents are being persisted to.

.. literalinclude:: /includes/data-modeling/persistence-configuration.rb
  :language: ruby
  :start-after: start persistence context attributes
  :end-before: end persistence context attributes

Customize Your Persistence Configuration
----------------------------------------

There may be cases where you want to persist documents to different sources, or
with different options, from the default. For example, perhaps you want to store
your model's documents in a collection with a different name than the pluralized
form of the model class name. {+odm+} provides both per-model and runtime 
support for customizing your persistence configuration.

Setting Model-Level Persistence Options
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can use the ``store_in`` macro to change the collection, database, or client
that a model's documents will be persisted in. The following example shows how
to use the ``store_in`` macro to store documents from the ``Person`` class in
a collection called ``citizens`` in the ``other`` database within a cluster

> named ``analytics``.

Author: I should have used client here! I believe "client" in this page's context refers to the combination of host/database defined in `mongoid.yml`. I will change the page to make this more clear.

passed to the ``with()`` method within the block. The model class or instance 
that ``with`` was called on is yielded to the block.

The temporary persistence context applies to both queries and writes.

Ensuring Consistency in Contexts
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

If a document is saved in a temporary persistence context, it may not exist
in the default persistence context. For example, if you insert a ``Band`` model
document into the ``artists`` collection, the same document will not be inserted
into the ``bands`` collection. The following example shows how to correctly 
ensure consistency between contexts.

.. literalinclude:: /includes/data-modeling/persistence-configuration.rb
  :language: ruby
  :start-after: start consistency example
  :end-before: end consistency example

.. important:: Using Block Scope
   
   As of {+odm+} 6.0, the ``with`` method must always be called with a block.
   This is because a new client is created in the background with the
   corresponding options that are passed to ``with``. The scope when this new
   client is used must be well-defined so the client can be closed and
   its resources can be freed.

> ``with`` can also apply directly to read and write operations. The following 
> example reads and counts data from the secondary node in an application:

Reviewer: I: second person, clarity (what does it mean for a method to 'apply directly' to an operation?) 

```suggestion
You can also perform read and write operations in the context of a ``with()`` method.
The following example uses the ``with()`` method to call ``Band.count``
on the secondary node of a replica set:
```

(my technical knowledge of this topic is being stretched thin here, so please change if i got something wrong)

.. literalinclude:: /includes/data-modeling/persistence-configuration.rb

>   :language: ruby
>   :start-after: start read configuration
>   :end-before: end read configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   :language: ruby
   :start-after: start read configuration
   :end-before: end read configuration
```

Setting Persistence Contexts Globally
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

{+odm+} provides the ability to globally define the persistence configuration at

> the database and client level. This is helpful if you want to switch the 

Reviewer: S: explain what it means to globally define this configuration--does this apply to all operations on a particular database/client?

> the database and client level. This is helpful if you want to switch the 
> persistence context for all operations at runtime but don't want to use ``with`` 
> multiple times throughout your code.

Reviewer: S: shorten

```suggestion
the database and client level. This lets you change the 
persistence context for all operations at runtime without calling the
``with()`` method.
```

> To globally define the persistence context in your program, use the
> ``{+odm+}.override_client`` and ``{+odm+}.override_database`` methods. For 

Reviewer: I: this sounds like i need to call both methods, but i think i only need one(?) i also wonder if a list would help to explain what each method does.

```suggestion
You can use the following methods to globally define the persistence context in your program:

 - ``{+odm+}.override_client()``: [summary]
 - ``{+odm+}.override_database()``: [summary]
```

> ``{+odm+}.override_client`` and ``{+odm+}.override_database`` methods. For 
> example, if your application stores information for different locales in 
> different databases, but the overall schema remains the same, you
> can use the ``{+odm+}.override_database`` function:

Reviewer: S: combine example with code intro. use 'method' instead of 'function' for consistency

```suggestion
``{+odm+}.override_client`` and ``{+odm+}.override_database`` methods.

 In the following code example, the application stores information for different locales
 in different databases, but both databases[?] use the same schema. The code shows
 how to use the ``{+odm+}.override_database()`` method to set a global persistence
 context for these databases:
```

.. literalinclude:: /includes/data-modeling/persistence-configuration.rb

>   :language: ruby
>   :start-after: start global configuration example
>   :end-before: end global configuration example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   :language: ruby
   :start-after: start global configuration example
   :end-before: end global configuration example
```

> In this example, all remaining operations on this thread will be performed on 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the preceding example, {+odm+} performs all other operations on this thread on 
```

an alternative database determined by the locale. Because the ``after_action`` 
macro sets the override option to ``nil``, subsequent requests with no

> changes in persistence configuration will use the default configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
changes in persistence configuration use the default configuration.
```

Client and Collection Access
----------------------------

> You can access the client or collection of a model or document instance using

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can access the client or collection of a model or document instance by using
```

> the ``mongo_client`` and ``collection`` class functions:

Reviewer: methods?

```suggestion
the ``mongo_client()`` and ``collection()`` class methods:
```

.. literalinclude:: /includes/data-modeling/persistence-configuration.rb

>   :language: ruby
>   :start-after: start access client collection
>   :end-before: end access client collection

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   :language: ruby
   :start-after: start access client collection
   :end-before: end access client collection
```

> When using these methods, you can also set runtime persistence options using
> ``with``, as described in the :ref:`mongoid-set-runtime-persistence-options`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using these methods, you can also set runtime persistence options by calling
the ``with()`` method, as described in the :ref:`mongoid-set-runtime-persistence-options`
```

> described earlier.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

``mongo_client.with``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The following code example accesses the client used by the ``Band`` model class.
It then uses the ``with()`` method on the client to write to the ``music``
database, setting the ``w`` write option to ``0`` to not require write acknowledgement.

.. literalinclude:: /includes/data-modeling/persistence-configuration.rb
  :language: ruby
  :start-after: start client with example
  :end-before: end client with example

``collection.with``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can override the ``:read`` or ``:write`` options on a collection using the
``with()`` method on a collection. The following example shows how to use
the ``with()`` method on a collection to set write preferences.

.. literalinclude:: /includes/data-modeling/persistence-configuration.rb
  :language: ruby
  :start-after: start collection with example
  :end-before: end collection with example 

API Documentation
-----------------

> Check out the following API documentation for more information on the methods
> mentioned in this guide:

Reviewer: I would love to write fun and casual docs like this, but that's not the current style 😞 
also [on/about](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/meta/style-guide/terminology/alphabetical-terms/#:~:text=Don%27t%20use%20on%20to%20mean%20about.)

```suggestion
For more information about the methods mentioned in this guide, see the following API documentation:
```

----------------------------------------

{+odm+} provides both model-level and runtime options for customizing your 
persistence configuration. The following sections describe these options.

Model-Level Persistence Options
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Suppose you want to store your model's documents in a collection with a 
different name than the pluralized form of the model class name.
You can use the ``store_in`` macro to change the collection, database, or client
where {+odm+} stores a model's documents. The following example shows how
to use the ``store_in`` macro to store documents from the ``Person`` class in
a collection called ``citizens`` in the ``other`` database within a client
named ``analytics``:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/data-modeling/persistence-configuration.rb
   :language: ruby
   :start-after: start store_in example
   :end-before: end store_in example

The ``store_in`` macro can also accept a lambda function. This is useful if you
want to define a persistence context with values that cannot use a constant string. 

You might want to use this pattern in a multi-tenant application,
where multiple users share common access to an application. By using

> a lambda, you can define a persistence context based on the current thread so
> that users cannot access each others' data.
> 
> The following example stores documents in a database determined by the 
> current thread:

Reviewer 2: In the example that follows, the discriminator isn't the _thread_, it's a _thread-local variable_. It might be nit-picking, but I feel like the distinction is significant. 

```suggestion
a lambda, you can define a persistence context based on thread-local information
so that users cannot access each others' data.

The following example stores documents in a database determined by a 
thread-local variable:
```

Author: Changed! I still specified that it's a variable local to the current thread... let me know if this is incorrect

Reviewer 2: Yeah, that's fine. "Thread-local" implies "local to the current thread". 👍

.. literalinclude:: /includes/data-modeling/persistence-configuration.rb
   :language: ruby
   :start-after: start store_in lambda example
   :end-before: end store_in lambda example

.. _mongoid-set-runtime-persistence-options:

Runtime Persistence Options
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> You can use the ``with()`` method on a model class or instance to change

Reviewer 2: I very strongly recommend omitting the empty parentheses here (and elsewhere). In Ruby, empty parentheses are almost never used in method calls. If you absolutely must differentiate between a keyword and a method, you can prefix the method with a pound symbol (for instance methods) or double-colon (for class methods). E.g. `#with` or `::with`. In this case, where `with` is declared as both a class method _and_ an instance method, I recommend just  calling it `with`, here, sans parentheses.

```suggestion
You can use the ``with`` method on a model class or instance to change
```

a model's persistence configuration for a group of operations during runtime.

Call the ``with()`` method on a model class or instance and pass options 
that define a persistence context. The ``with()`` method accepts the following 
arguments:

- ``options_or_context``: A customizable set of options or a 
  ``Mongoid::PersistenceContext`` object.

> - ``options``: A customizable set of options.

Reviewer 2: These parameter names are a sad casualty of Ruby's lack of method overloading. What the net result, here, is that the `with` methods has (effectively) two different signatures:

- `with(context, options)` -- where `context` is an instance of `Mongoid::PersistanceContext`, and `options` is a Hash, and
- `with(options)` -- where all you supply is the options Hash.

I wonder if it might be clearer to document it this way, rather than exposing the `options_or_context` parameter, which is awkward to describe.

specified context. The context that you define only exists while the code
in the block runs.

By default, {+odm+} stores documents for the ``Band`` class in a collection called
``bands``. The following code example uses the ``with()`` method to temporarily
use a different client, database, and collection to perform operations on the 
``Band`` class's documents:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/data-modeling/persistence-configuration.rb
   :language: ruby
   :start-after: start with() example
   :end-before: end with() example

.. note:: Define Clients

   In the preceding example, you must define the ``tertiary`` cluster under
   ``clients`` in your ``mongoid.yml`` file.

.. important:: Block Scope

   You must call the ``with()`` method with a block.
   This is because {+odm+} uses the options you pass to the method to create
   a new client in the background. A block defines the scope of this client
   so it can be closed and its resources freed.

You can also pass the ``with()`` method configuration options for read or write 
operations. The configurations apply only to the specified type of operation.

The following example uses the ``with()`` method to specify the use of the 

> secondary node for all read operations within the block. Write operations in 
> the block still run on the default context.

Reviewer 2: *All* operations there use the new context, even write operations. However, since the read configuration is the only difference between the default and new persistence contexts, a write will behave the same on this new context as it would on the default context.

```suggestion
secondary node for all read operations within the block.
```

You can use the following methods to globally define the persistence context
in your program:

- ``{+odm+}.override_client``: {+odm+} performs all operations on the specified client.

- ``{+odm+}.override_database``: {+odm+} performs all operations on the specified
  database.

In the following code example, the application stores information for different
locales in different databases. The code shows how to use the 
``{+odm+}.override_database()`` method to globally set the persistence
context based on the locale:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/data-modeling/persistence-configuration.rb
   :language: ruby
   :start-after: start global configuration example
   :end-before: end global configuration example

In the preceding example, {+odm+} performs all other operations on this thread
on an alternative database determined by the locale. Because the ``after_action`` 
macro sets the override option to ``nil``, subsequent requests with no
changes in persistence configuration use the default configuration.

Client and Collection Access
----------------------------

You can access the client or collection of a model or document instance by using

> the ``mongo_client()`` and ``collection()`` class methods:

Reviewer 2: Again, I strongly recommend omitting the empty parentheses here.

```suggestion
the ``mongo_client`` and ``collection`` class methods:
```

     :language: ruby
     :start-after: start persistence context attributes
     :end-before: end persistence context attributes

  .. output::
     :language: ruby
     :visible: false

     default

     my_bands

     bands

Customize Your Persistence Configuration
----------------------------------------

{+odm+} provides both model-level and runtime options for customizing your 
persistence configuration. The following sections describe these options.

Model-Level Persistence Options
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Perhaps you want to store your model's documents in a collection with a 
different name than the pluralized form of the model class name.

You can use the ``store_in`` macro to change the collection, database, or client
where {+odm+} stores a model's documents. The following example shows how
to use the ``store_in`` macro to store documents from the ``Person`` class in
a collection called ``citizens`` in the ``other`` database within a client
named ``analytics``.

.. literalinclude:: /includes/data-modeling/persistence-configuration.rb
   :language: ruby
   :start-after: start store_in example
   :end-before: end store_in example

> The ``store_in`` macro can also accept a lambda. For example, you might want to 
> use this pattern in a multi-tenant application,
> where multiple users share common access to an application. You can use a lambda
> to perform operations on different databases based on the current thread so that
> users cannot access each others' data. The following example stores documents in
> a database determined by the current thread:

Reviewer: S: when you introduce a new thing, it can be helpful to go general -> specific:

1. Here's this lambda pattern
2. Here's why it's cool
3. Here's when you might want to use it and why
4. Code example

something like this:

```suggestion
The ``store_in`` macro can also accept a lambda. Lambdas let you
[do what cool stuff, like thread restrictions?].

You might want to use this pattern in a multi-tenant application,
where multiple users share common access to an application. By using
a lambda, you can prevent users from accessing each others' data.

The following example stores documents in
a database determined by the current thread:
```

.. literalinclude:: /includes/data-modeling/persistence-configuration.rb
   :language: ruby
   :start-after: start store_in lambda example
   :end-before: end store_in lambda example

.. _mongoid-set-runtime-persistence-options:

Runtime Persistence Options
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can use the ``with()`` method on a model class or instance to change
a model's persistence configuration for a group of operations during runtime.

The persistence context for the model class or instance that you call ``with()``

> on changes to the defined temporary persistence context within a block. 

Reviewer: S: this sentence gives (good!) information about the `with()` method, but the reader might not have context for it. let's workshop this one together on zoom.

When you call ``with()`` on a model class or instance, the class or instance is 
yielded to the block. The temporary persistence context applies to both queries 

> and writes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and write operations.
```

By default, {+odm+} stores documents for the ``Band`` class in a collection called
``bands``. The following code example uses the ``with()`` method to temporarily
use a different client, database, and collection to perform operations on the 
``Band`` class's documents:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/data-modeling/persistence-configuration.rb
   :language: ruby
   :start-after: start with() example
   :end-before: end with() example

.. note:: Define Clients

   In the preceding example, you must define the ``tertiary`` cluster under
   ``clients`` in your ``mongoid.yml`` file.

Ensuring Consistency in Contexts
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

If you save a document in a temporary persistence context, it does not exist
in the default persistence context if you do not save it there as well. 
For example, if you insert a ``Band`` model document into the ``artists`` 
collection, the same document will not be inserted into the ``bands`` collection.
Ensure that you perform operations on the same persistence context for data

> consistency. The following example uses ``with()`` to insert a document into

Reviewer: Q: does this sentence mean 'operations work only on one context at a time, so if you're working on more than one, make sure you don't mix them up'?

> Ensure that you perform operations on the same persistence context for data
> consistency. The following example uses ``with()`` to insert a document into

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ensure that you perform operations on the same persistence context for data
consistency. The following example uses the ``with()`` method to insert a document into
```

> a custom collection and to update that document in the correct collection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a custom collection and update that document in the correct collection.
```

what does 'correct' mean here?

.. literalinclude:: /includes/data-modeling/persistence-configuration.rb
   :language: ruby
   :start-after: start consistency example
   :end-before: end consistency example

> .. important:: Block Scope

Reviewer: S: this feels like it should be mentioned at the beginning of this subsection, when you introduce the ``with()`` method

   
   You must call the ``with()`` method with a block.
   This is because {+odm+} uses the options you pass to the method to create
   a new client in the background. A block defines the scope of this client
   so it can be closed and its resources freed.

You can also perform read and write operations in the context of a ``with()``

> method. The following example uses the ``with()`` method to call ``Band.count``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
method. The following example uses the ``with()`` method to call the ``Band.count`` method(?)
```

on the secondary node of a replica set:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/data-modeling/persistence-configuration.rb
   :language: ruby
   :start-after: start read configuration
   :end-before: end read configuration

Global Persistence Contexts
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++

> In previous examples in this section, you can only change persistence context in
> the scope of a block. {+odm+} can globally define the persistence

Reviewer: I: this sentence mixes past tense ('in previous examples...') and present tense ('you can...'). the style guide also has [a rule about 'only'](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/meta/style-guide/terminology/alphabetical-terms/#o:~:text=Place%20only%20preceding%20the%20word%20or%20group%20that%20it%20modifies.) that's easy to forget

```suggestion
In previous examples in this section, you changed the persistence context only in
the scope of a block. {+odm+} can globally define the persistence
```

> configuration to perform all operations on a particular database or client. 

Reviewer: I think this sentence could use rewording, but I need some help understanding it 🥲

This lets you change the persistence context for all operations at runtime
without repreatedly calling the ``with()`` method.

You can use the following methods to globally define the persistence context
in your program:

> - ``{+odm+}.override_client``: Perform all operations on the specified client.
> 
> - ``{+odm+}.override_database``: Perform all operations on the specified
>   database.

Reviewer: S: 'Perform' reads as imperative instead of indicative

```suggestion
- ``{+odm+}.override_client``: {+odm+} performs all operations on the specified client.
- ``{+odm+}.override_database``: {+odm+} performs all operations on the specified
  database.
```

changes in persistence configuration use the default configuration.

Client and Collection Access
----------------------------

You can access the client or collection of a model or document instance by using
the ``mongo_client()`` and ``collection()`` class methods:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/data-modeling/persistence-configuration.rb
   :language: ruby
   :start-after: start access client collection
   :end-before: end access client collection

When using these methods, you can also set runtime persistence options by calling
the ``with()`` method, similar to examples in the :ref:`mongoid-set-runtime-persistence-options`
section.

``mongo_client.with``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The following code example accesses the client used by the ``Band`` model class.
It then uses the ``with()`` method on the client to write to the ``music``
database, setting the ``w`` write option to ``0`` to not require write acknowledgement.

.. literalinclude:: /includes/data-modeling/persistence-configuration.rb
  :language: ruby
  :start-after: start client with example
  :end-before: end client with example

``collection.with``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> You can override the ``:read`` or ``:write`` options on a collection by using the

Reviewer: I: combines 'or' with multiple options

```suggestion
You can override the ``:read`` and ``:write`` options on a collection by using the
```

``with()`` method. The following example shows how to use

> the ``with()`` method to set the ``w`` write option to ``0``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the ``with()`` method to set the ``w`` write option to ``0``:
```

.. literalinclude:: /includes/data-modeling/persistence-configuration.rb

>   :language: ruby
>   :start-after: start collection with example
>   :end-before: end collection with example 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   :language: ruby
   :start-after: start collection with example
   :end-before: end collection with example 
```

   :start-after: start default modeling
   :end-before: end default modeling

However, the default rules of pluralization don't always work. For 
example, suppose your model is named ``Rey``. The plural form of this word in
Spanish is "reyes", but the default collection name is "reys."

You can create a new pluralization rule for your model class by calling the
`ActiveSupport::Inflector::Inflections.plural() <https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActiveSupport/Inflector/Inflections.html#method-i-plural>`__ 

> instance method, passing the singular and plural forms of your class name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
instance method and passing the singular and plural forms of your class name.
```

You can use the ``with()`` method on a model class or instance to change
a model's persistence configuration for a group of operations during runtime.

Call the ``with()`` method on a model class or instance and pass options 
that define a persistence context. The ``with()`` method accepts the following 
arguments:

- ``options_or_context``: A customizable set of options or a 
  ``Mongoid::PersistenceContext`` object.

- ``options``: A customizable set of options.

Then, use a block to define the operations that you want to execute in the 

> specified context. The context that you define only exists within
> the block.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
specified context. The context that you define exists only while the
code in the block runs.
```

   In the preceding example, you must define the ``tertiary`` cluster under
   ``clients`` in your ``mongoid.yml`` file.

.. important:: Block Scope

   You must call the ``with()`` method with a block.
   This is because {+odm+} uses the options you pass to the method to create
   a new client in the background. A block defines the scope of this client
   so it can be closed and its resources freed.

You can also pass the ``with()`` method configuration options for read or write 

> operations. The configurations apply only to the specified type of operation, 
> regardless of operations inside the block.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
operations. The configurations apply only to the specified type of operation.
```

The following example uses the ``with()`` method to specify the use of the 
secondary node for all read operations within the block. Write operations in 
the block still run on the default context.

.. literalinclude:: /includes/data-modeling/persistence-configuration.rb
   :language: ruby
   :start-after: start read configuration
   :end-before: end read configuration

.. note:: Ensuring Consistency in Contexts

>    When you apply an operation to one context, it does not get applied to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   When you perform an operation in one context, {+odm+} doesn't
   automatically perform the same operation in
```
